Hi. My name is Ashley Baisley.
I'm a teacher at Birchmount School,
and I'm going to talk
a little bit
about my experiential learning.
So I teach math most of the day,
but in the afternoons,
I've got this block of time
where I'm able to do
some really cool things with the kids.
We have what's called life skills, math.
And, at our school, we get to go
into the kitchen and do math, hands on.
So that's reading recipes.
Learning about ratios real time
when you're making, you know, bannock,
doing timing and sequencing,
learning about temperatures and,
and all kinds of hands on life things that
we do in daily life that involve math.
Learning about fractions,
using measuring cups, learning about,
having and doubling recipes,
where you're having
and doubling fractions, what to do
if you don't have the right measuring cup
for the volume of flour that you need?
Just those kinds of skills
there, learning that hands on.
And it's really making that connection
between that number
that they see on a page.
And really what that fraction means,
they're able to see like that.
An eight is smaller than a quarter
because they're seeing it
and they're like, oh, well,
I always thought it was bigger
because eight on the bottom
is bigger than four.
And then they're just like
they're making those connections
and they're seeing I'm seeing I'm
seeing the light bulb come on.
And it's made a big difference
in their their acceptance
of like sometimes when kids
when they see a fraction on a page, they,
they shut it down.
They're like, I can't do a fraction.
But now they're more open to doing it
in math class because it's like, oh, well,
that's just like a measuring cup for
that's just like,
I've seen this,
I know this, I can do this.
So we've had a lot of wins with that.
I've also got to do some really cool
things, with sewing and budgeting.
And they're learning about like,
comparative shopping
and like breaking down
unit costs of things to get a better deal.
So it's just I hope it's
going to make those kids in that,
that typically don't enjoy math class,
see that there is value in it.
And I see them now
telling me they're like,
oh, well,
I was going to buy this at the store.
And then I realized, like, if I got
if I just bought the case of them,
Madame, it's so much cheaper to do it
that way, and I have more of them to go.
It cost a little bit in the beginning,
more cost more in the beginning.
But I'm going to have more and save money.
So I'm just seeing them
make those connections in their real life.
And they're talking about going
grocery shopping and looking at the, the,
the prices per volume.
So it's really cool to see that and have
those conversations with middle schoolers.
How did we get here?
How did I start doing this?
I guess,
was it all started when I was, started
doing some hydroponics in my classroom,
and we grew lettuce
and and it was really cool because we got
to chart the lettuce like the nutrients.
They got to learn about all that
and get hands on, and then I said,
oh, no, no, now I gotta do something
with all of this lettuce.
Like, at first
I was trying to get them to take it home
and then I was like, maybe I can sell it.
But then I was like,
no, we need to do something.
We need to, like, do something,
maybe feed the school.
And I ended up applying for a grant
and got a little bit of money,
from the farm to cafeteria.
And I got to make it bigger and better.
And then we were able to produce,
like, a whole bunch of lettuce,
like 200 heads of lettuce out of time.
And then we were able to do some
really cool things
with pretending like we were a restaurant
and making Caesar salads from scratch,
and the kids got to make croutons.
They got to wash lettuce.
We ran it
kind of like a kitchen at a restaurant.
They had servers, they got food runners,
and they all got to experience that.
And they all had a job
and they thought it was really fun.
And my administrators at the time, they,
they started to see
like, okay, there's like
there's value in doing stuff like this.
Like this is the kids are engaged.
Like some of the kids,
you would sit there with their arms
crossed
and not participating were like into it.
And they were loving it.
And you can see the light in their eyes.
They're excited to come to class.
So that's where we were able
to see, like making time in my schedule
on the day that I could do this
in class on a daily basis or weekly basis,
and make it part of their daily
of the math curriculum
and connecting those those anecdotal
and those like abstract ideas
to to real life things.
It really made that connection
for those kids
and brought in a lot of more fun
and enjoyment and made them
participate more,
and just made my day more fun to.
So if,
like tips for if you were trying
to wanting to take on something
like make more of experiential learning
in your day.
There's lots of grants out there.
Spray mental learning.
You can get a lot of different grants.
There's a lot of people
wanting to invest in,
in youth and in experiential learning,
in particular with youth.
And if you're creative and you can connect
things, anything to math, especially,
you can definitely get some money
to help you
make this idea and any idea
that you have come to fruition.
And, talking to your administrator
and, and, and,
and coming up with a plan and,
and sharing the ideas
and getting other people excited
and on board is really what kind of gets
you gets the team behind you
and can make really amazing things happen.